# Introduction

Behind-the-meter battery energy storage systems (BESS) support grid stability by enhancing flexibility and adding new services to the electrical system. However, the integration of BESS requires advanced communication standards of BESS increase integration complexity, leading to interoperability issues that delay seamless deployment. The work aims to create an open-source interoperable communication and control framework for BESS using Eclipse VOLTTRON. This framework provides a protocol-agnostic interface for BESS by mapping the data models of IEC 61850-420 to protocols according to IEEE 1547 standards. In addition, controls are developed based on existing MESA modes and a two-stage control framework that includes scheduling and real-time control mechanisms to provide grid services. The communication and control framework has been tested on a real system for energy arbitrage, demand charge reduction and MESA charge/ discharge modes, 125kW/250kWh BESS and a building with a 150kW peak load.

# Background

A behind-the-meter (BTM) battery energy storage system (BESS) improves energy efficiency, reduces electricity costs, and improves the reliability of the grid. BESS can provide critical services like frequency regulation and voltage control, helping maintain grid stability and prevent blackouts. As more distributed and intermittent energy sources, such as photovoltaic (PV) and wind power, along with bidirectional components like electric vehicles (EVs), are integrated into the grid, the role of BESS is expanding. Advanced control and optimization algorithms are driving research into BESS management. For example, the financial advantages of peak shaving and energy arbitrage for BTM BESS under demand charge tariffs, while other works examined BESS integration to mitigate the short-term variability of renewable energy, further evaluated various energy storage technologies for grid services. 

Interoperability ensures that various energy storage systems from different manufacturers can communicate and coordinate charging/discharging activities efficiently. Several communication protocols and standards have been developed to address Sunspc Modbus, Distributed Network Protocol 3 (DNP3) and global standards like IEC 61850 for power utility operation. IEEE 2030.5 supports communication in smart grids for energy resources like BESS, while IEEE 1547 establishes standards for interconnection and interoperability with the grid, addressing voltage regulation, frequency response, anti-islanding protection and grid support functions. Successful BESS demonstration projects require seamless integration with other devices highlighting the need for standardized communication protocols to address interoperability challenges. 


